In the previous lecture we have seen a concrete example of how to calculate the delta value for a given
feature.
And the closer the value to on the more likely we have found a Haar feature.
But we have to sum up lots of lots of values because a feature usually contains lots of lots of pixels.
So not just 8 pixels but for example thousands of pixels.
So we have to sum up lots of lots of values and that's why we have to talk about integral images.
OK so the problem is that we have to calculate the average of a given region several times and calculating
the average has the running time complexity or the door and squared which is a quadratic running time
algorithm.
So we can use integral image approach to achieve or one.
So constant running time complexity you may pose the question that why are there so many operations.
Because we have to use harsh features with all possible sizes and locations.
OK so we have been talking about the feature and the line feature but of course we have to use lots
of lots of variations of these features.
So the size of these candles may differ.
For example this is a line feature.
This is the same line feature but with different size.
This is the same line feature but with different sizes and so on.
So that's why they are going to be lots of lots of operations because we own the Jones algorithm uses
lots of lots of kernels.
So the number of features can be as high as two hundred thousand.
OK.
And every time we have to use a quadratic algorithm as we have seen in the previous lecture.
So this is why we need to find a more optimal approach.
And this is why integral image approach came to be.
So instead of using the original image we are going to transform this image into the integral image
and a given pixel in the integral image is the sum of all the pixels to the left and above.
So one dot two is equal to 0.1 closer 0.1 plus 0.2 plus 0.3 plus 0.1 plus 0.4.
OK let's take another example for example this pixel is the sum of all the pixels in the original image
to the left and above.
So 5.3 is equal to the sum of all of these values.
And why is it good to use that integral image.
Because if we want to calculate the sum of these values you may pose the question that OK why are we
after some of these values because when calculating the similarity to the heart feature we have to sum
up the pixel intensities for a given region.
So the average of the pixel intensity for that dark region minus the average of the pixel intensities
for the bright region.
So that's why when dealing with hard features and viola and Saadawi them we have to sum up lots of lots
of numerical values.
OK and if we use the integral image instead of the original one if we want to calculate the sum of these
values we don't have to consider all of them because if we sum up all of these in the original approach
we are going to end up with an ordered though and squared.
So a quadratic algorithm is that we are going to manipulate the values in the integral image because
the sum of all these numbers are equal to the value of this peaks.
So we just have to consider the bottom right pixel of the original image.
OK this is the pixel we are considering.
So the sum is equal to 0.7 But here we are going to consider all the pixels to the left and above.
Of course we have to substract 0.5 because we don't care about these values.
Ok but again we have a lot of lot of unnecessary values.
So what do we have to do.
We have to consider this speaks.
So that's why plot's 0.2.
And finally we have to substract the value of this pixel.
And this is how we are able to end up with the sum of these values if we want to calculate the sum of
six values.
Of course we can use the original approach but usually in dealing the viola Jonesey algorithm we have
to calculate the sum of thousands and thousands of values.
So that's why this approach is more convenient and we can achieve or the one constant running time complexity
for handling car features.
So again what do we have to do if we want to find the some of rectangles like this we just have to consider
the bottom right.
So on the integral image OK then we have to subtract these values.
Ok then we have to audit these values because in the next step we are going to eliminate all of these
pixel values and we end up with Desam what we are looking for.
Ok so instead of considering all the values in the rectangle as you can see we just have to use for
values and we have to consider for pixels on the integral image in order to end up with the sun.
So there's some way that integral image approach is 1.7.
And if you sum up these values it is 0.9 1.2 1.5 1.6 and 1.7.
So as you can see it is working fine.
We are able to end up with an algorithm where the map of the integral image approach.
And we are able to reduce quadratic running time complexity to order one constant running time complexity.
And this is exactly what we are after.
OK in the next lecture we are going to talk about how to use boosting and added boost in order to end
up with a powerful classification algorithm capable of detecting human faces.
Thanks for watching.